HOW TO PLAY BLACKJACK
Introduction
The classic casino card game using standard card decks of 52 has had many names in the past, most popularly known in the UK as pontoon or twenty one.
It is easy to learn, you play against the dealer and the nearest to 21 (without going over 21) wins the hand, you choose whether to take a card or stand on what you have and there is a variety of side bets for you to choose from. For more information on side-bets that you can make at your local casino talk to your dealer.
So take your seat at the table with your friends, relax and enjoy a few rounds.
Table minimums
Our live tables all have rules around the minimum bet allowed for each hand or spin. These will be clearly displayed at each table so you can see in advance what bets apply, if you are unsure please ask a member of the team who will be able to explain the table minimums to you.

How To Play
You play with cash chips. If you need some ask the Dealer to exchange your cash for cash chips.
Place your bet in the box in front of you. The Dealer gives each Player two cards and takes one for themselves. Kings, Queens and Jacks count as 10. Aces can be either 11 or 1 depending on how their value affects your hand.
The Dealer will then ask each Player if they want another card to help them get closer to a total of 21. When it’s your turn, ask for more cards if you require them. When you’re happy with your hand say: “No more cards”. If you have gone over 21 you are ‘bust’ and have lost.
If you and the other players are happy with their hands, and not bust, the Dealer will then take their cards. The Dealer has no choices to make when they play their hand. They must simply draw cards until they reach at least 17 (the Dealer must stand on 17) or busts by going over 21.
In some clubs, the Dealer will draw on ‘Soft 17’ meaning the Dealer can draw another card with no danger of ‘busting’. Hands such as (Ace, 6), (Ace, 5, Ace), and (Ace, 2, 4) are all examples of Soft 17. This option will be clearly stated on the table.
	•	Winning bets are paid even money, so, if you’ve bet £5 and win you will get your bet back plus £5.
	•	If your first two cards are a 10 and an Ace then you have Blackjack. This pays odds of 3 to 2. In this case you will get your £5 back plus £7.50 winnings.
	•	If the Dealer matches your hand there are no wins or losses.
You also have the option of doubling your original bet by buying one more card. This tactic is called ‘doubling’.
Split bets – if you wish, you can split your hand if your first two cards are a pair. Now you have two chances of beating the Dealer. For the new hand you must place the equivalent of your first bet.
If you split Aces, if it is a picture card or a 10, it is counted as 21, not Blackjack. You may only split the first two cards - no further splits permitted.
Blackjack is one of the most simple and enjoyable games – give it a go!
House Edge 
4 Decks (best technique) 0.55% (0.76% where the Dealer may draw on 'soft' 17)
6 Decks (best technique) 0.59% (0.80% where the Dealer may draw on ‘soft’ 17)

Side Bets
BLACKJACK WITH 21+3
HOW DO YOU PLAY?
	•	When you play Blackjack with a 21+3 side bet the normal Blackjack rules apply. The aim is to get a total higher than the Dealer without going over 21.
	•	You can also play an optional bet in addition to your Blackjack wager called the 21+3 side bet. This pays out depending on your first two cards and the Dealer’s first ‘up’ card.
	•	Start by placing a bet. The Blackjack bet is required, whereas the 21+3 side bet is optional. Once you place your bets you then receive two cards face up and the Dealer receives one face up card.
	•	If those three cards form a winning hand, you are paid at 9 – 1.
	•	These winnings are completely independent to your Blackjack hand
House Edge
4 Decks: 4.24% 6 Decks: 3.23%
WINNING 3-CARD HANDS:
FLUSH OR 3 OF A KIND (counts only as one winning hand)
￼
STRAIGHT
￼
STRAIGHT FLUSH
￼
SIDE BET - PAIRS
Pairs is as the name describes based on the first two player cards dealt being pairs. There are three pair types:
	•	Mixed Pairs: A pair which is made up of 1 black and 1 red card. Pays 5:1.
	•	Same Colour Pair: A pair made up of the same colour but different suits. Pays 12:1 with 4 decks, 10:1 with 6 decks.
	•	Same Suit Pair: The best combination, this is a pair which is exactly the same i.e. 2x Queen of Spades. Pays 30:1
House Edge
4 Decks: 6.8% 6 Decks: 5.8%
SIDE BET - TOP 3
Top 3’ is an optional side bet that may be played when a standard Blackjack wager has been placed. The ‘Top 3’ side wager shall only be made available at a table marked for the provision of the wager. Wagers for the Top 3 bet shall be within the table limits displayed on the table and placed before the initial deal has commenced.
Dealer Action
The Croupier will perform the initial deal of two cards to each player and one to him/herself. Prior to any further action taking place, all 21+3 and Top 3 wagers will be settled, starting with the box to the Croupier’s right and working round the table.
The Odds
A winning Top 3 hand will consist of the player’s first two dealt cards (initial hand) and the Croupier’s faceup card. The three cards combined must make the following hand in order to be paid the stated odds:
	•	Three of a Kind: 90 to1
	•	Straight Flush: 180 to 1
	•	Three of a Kind Suited: 270 to 1
House Edge
4 Decks: 15.04% 6 Decks: 11.07%
